One day in April 2011,
the overseer of Audio/Video Services
came downstairs to postproduction
and gathered everybody into a little room,
and he said, “The Governing Body wants
to make an animated series for children,
and they want to know if you can do it.”
So we all looked at each other.
Everybody is looking around the room.
‘Are we really going
to make an animated series for children?
Do they really want this?’
Back in the 1990’s, the Governing Body
was asked if a fully animated video
for children could be considered,
and evidently it was not the proper time
because the video was not approved.
But what a surprise in 2011
when the Governing Body approved
a fully animated video series for children!
The team immediately worked
on creating a sample animation
to show not just technically
how they could create a character
in an environment
but also, more important,
to show how a lesson
could be taught
and how this could be a powerful tool.
The Teaching Committee loved it
and gave full approval to produce the series.
Well, one clever idea was to have
Caleb portrayed as a small boy
with a big, vivid imagination.
The intro with the stunt plane
was significant, I think, because it showed
that the Governing Body
was sending a message
to children everywhere,
saying that “this is for you,”
but it also said to them:
“This character, he’s just like you.
“He’s got an imagination, he likes to play,
and also, just like you,
he wants to be Jehovah’s friend.”
Well, that first video
had hard deadlines that had to be met.
To meet those targets,
some of the brothers
had to, at times, work
for 30 hours straight on their computer.
Then they would take a nap,
get back up, and continue their work.
But the brothers had a beautiful spirit.
They told me that a soldier
does not work from 8:00 to 5:00.
He does whatever the cause demands.
Satan is at war with our children.
We’ll do whatever it takes
to combat the Devil.
The Governing Body completely
shaped the teaching
—the tone of this series—
as you would expect.
And one example was in the lesson
on obedience, where Caleb
leaves his toys out
and doesn’t listen to his mom.
An initial idea by the team was
that somebody slips on a toy,
knocks over a candle, curtains catch on fire
—Boom!—
and the house burns to the ground.
So that went to the Governing Body,
and they reviewed it, and they said:
“Well, that’s pretty scary.
Try a different idea; that’s a bit much.”
We didn’t want to do anything
that needlessly frightened the children.
So we try to look at it
from the parents’ perspective,
and some things we would not approve.
Even though the Governing Body
rejected some of the team’s ideas,
they made it a point to let the team know:
“We want these creative ideas.
We encourage the creativity.”
And that really touched us.
It meant a lot to us.
It kept the team motivated
to keep presenting ideas.
We also had to plan out
how translating branches
would produce each
of the pieces needed for their DVD.
As each branch had finished their DVD,
we put a copy of it
on our wall to track the progress.
To our surprise, the wall
started to fill up with discs,
and they spilled over to the next wall.
That was so encouraging
for our team to see the progress.
So we were really excited
to release it at the convention,
and it was amazing
—the work that went into it!
We were able to release it
in over 130 languages, the first one.
What’s remarkable is
that young ones are using this tool
to apply Bible principles
even before they’re old enough
to attend school,
and it’s helping them progress
to the point of baptism.
Our son, Malcolm, was baptized in 2018.
Prior to his baptism,
when he was still young and learning,
we were worried because Malcolm
had a problem with lying.
I noticed that the big, green, slimy things
kept on growing bigger and bigger
as Caleb kept lying.
Seeing them, I had the picture
of them stuck in my head.
So every time
I ever wanted to or felt like lying,
I would imagine them behind me
growing bigger and bigger as well.
And that helped me quite a lot.
After watching Caleb’s father
lovingly talking to Caleb
and seeing Caleb listening when his father
used Bible characters to teach Caleb,
I tried it with Soo-ah.
Soo-ah was receptive to this method
and listened well
to what we wanted to teach her.
This made me realize
how effective the videos are.
We are very grateful.
We, as parents,
are especially grateful to Jehovah
for teaching us methods
on how to raise our children well.
I want to be Jehovah’s friend
like Mom and Dad.
I’ve had the privilege
over these past ten years
to meet a lot of the children
—some of them when they first
were being shown
the videos and then grew a few years—
and it is just so very evident
that Jehovah blessed the project
because “wisdom
is proved righteous by its works.”
This has worked.